---
date: 2020-05-11
title: "Dreams"
cover: "images/purple-light-dawn.jpg"
categories: 
    - Water and Woods
slug: "dreams"
tags:
    - plants
    - animism
---

## Tea

Sat in meditation in the beginning. Powerful sense of the earth, the connectedness, the being-all-together-held-at-once of the roots and vines and mushroom mycelium, the flowing of all of these reaching out endlessly, twined together, my nervous system and the threads of my sinews, all interleaved and growing, stretching without end out, deeper, richer, on and on.

Massive tree of golden-white light. From the earth, was me as me, conscious and alive, rising up, coming through. Living in my whole body, connecting what was disconnected back down into the ground, roots deep, arms like branches or branches like arms, reaching up, rooting into the air and sky, lungs and skin. The communicated sense without words that this might be difficult but can and should be endured, healing what was hurt, connecting what had forgotten how, moving what was stuck.

The night is filled with wonder and beauty and terrible visions together. Not like some where geometries play, but rather profound fully formed visualizations of other lands and other places, fairie realms and maybe others besides. First time with enough clarity, even with the pounding heart, to recognize the flow between this world, a world of dreams, a world of the trees and living green, and the fairie spaces, and realize that while they are all of course always present and overlapping, that they have their own character as well. Different kinds of conscious, different shapes.

Trees and green are siblings in kind with this human heart and we walk together gently. They can be deep and terrible but they are my brothers, sisters, siblings, friends, companions, and they know my heart, have my heart, are one with me and I with them, that saying even subjective pronouns to separate feels strange and unnecessary. Language that makes boundaries seem more real than they are.

Dreams known and unknown, still after so many years unfamiliar, and did not drift deeply enough there to see but purples and unnameable colors and shapes, present but drifting.

These realms are distinctly non-human. Wild and alluring, but terrifying and full of another kind of consciousness that feels like madness when it looks into your closed eyes. Full of powerful magic but utterly alien to the way waking human consciousness touches the world, gives rise to shape in the world. Saw gates to different lands slide over one another open and then shut without the landscape changing, beings walking in and out of possible, a change of light or momentary focus and someone would walk into and out of a space. Understood how changelings happen, how souls wander and get lost, how people disappear. It's real, as real as anything else, anyway. Spaces that do not require the change of material form in the way we know it for things to move in and out of what we call real, but can change it or overlap with it long enough to see and in perhaps some uncommon case, slide through. While magickal and full of wonder, it is my sense that this is not truly a land for humans, and care, such great care, should be had.

Slipped into a pond through a fence under a bridge, did not realize it at the time, where a grizzled man with shaggy locks of gray patchy hair waved me in. Did not look malicious but certainly dangerous. I slid into the water as did the little lizards and newts. A face, his face, grew beside me suddenly, longer than wide, but wider than mine, stretching, the realization that he was a troll struck me, and he had a tangle of water-plant roots growing through his nose and sinuses, and he blew them in and out out while he looked at me with eyes that shone of a kind of awareness that in my waking life would be madness but there felt like it was natural, just not my human natural.

Other creatures too but deeper and who gave me looks that I could not comprehend, who were of an order of consciousness very far removed from my own, where madness skittered along the back of my mind to even see them, as the shone eyes at me and then turned or contorted some kind of deep-sea body and vanished into depths that felt as if would undo me should I watch too long. Without malice or ill intent but deeply dangerous still, not threatening but not of my world. Like I had slipped into another and they came to look, but I was the one out of place.

Before the turn of it going deep, when in meditation and full of the great goldwhite light tree, there was a hut that was mine, with stones placed about its edge, spirals and gentle curving glyphs, a space cultivated and safe, magickal on the borderland between worlds, one that had been building, perhaps by me and perhaps by others, unknown, but my fingers traced these glyphs and knew I was home, in a wild place, with the warmth of the sun and the trees, a little hut and the woods.